Replace COSE_KDF_Context with new Recipient structure (#58)
cose-wg/HPKE: draft-ietf-cose-hpke.md

multiple parties at the expense of a single additional encryption operation.
As stated above, the specification uses a CEK to encrypt the content at layer 0.

#### Recipient Encryption

This describes a Recipient_structure.
It serves instead of COSE_KDF_Context for COSE-HPKE recipients (and possibly other COSE algorithms defined outside this document).

> It is mandatory for COSE-HPKE recipients as it provides the protection for protected headers.

Reviewer: Prefer a MUST here vs mandatory

Author: Fixed

It is patterned after the Enc_structure in RFC 9052, but is specifically for a COSE_recipient, never a COSE_Encrypt.
The COSE_KDF_Context is NOT used in COSE-HPKE.

~~~
Recipient_structure = [ 
    context: “Recipient”,
    next_layer_alg: int/tstr,

>     recipient_protected_header: empty_or_serialize_map,

Author: I believe the naming is as I intend. The alg ID is from the layer below. The protected headers are from the COSE_Recipient, not from a different layer.

    recipient_aad: bstr
]
~~~

- "next_layer_alg" is the algorithm ID of the COSE layer for which the COSE_recipient is encrypting a key.
It is the algorithm that the key MUST be used with.
This MUST match the alg parameter in the next lower COSE layer.

> (This serves the same purpose as the alg ID in the COSE_KDF_Context.

Reviewer: I'd move the details to security considerations, to keep the implementation guidance as short as possible, but thats editorial

It also mitigates attacks where a man-in-the-middle changes the following layer algorithm from an AEAD algorithm to one that is not foiling the protection of the following layer headers).

> - "recipient_protected_header" This is the protected headers from the COSE_recipient CBOR-encoded deterministically with CDE.

Reviewer: I don't like the OR here. Can we stick to existing COSE conventions?

Author: Not sure what "OR" you are referring to.

- "recipient_aad" This is any additional context that the application wishes to protect.
If none, it is a zero-length string.
This is distinct from the external_aad for the whole COSE encrypt.
It is per-recipient. Since it is not a header, it may be secret data that is not transmitted.

> It provides a means to convey many of the fields in COSE_KDF_Context.

Reviewer: We should provide examples

#### COSE-HPKE Recipient Construction

This is the procedure for creating a COSE_recipient for COSE-HPKE.

When a COSE_recipeint is constructed for a COSE-HPKE recipient, this is given as the “aad” parameter to the HPKE Seal() API.
The “info” parameter to HPKE_Seal is not used with COSE_HPKE.

The creation of the COSE_recipient is as follows:

1. Prepare a Recipient_structure

> 2. Obtain the CEK from the next lowest layer

Reviewer: Here we say it's a CEK... But before we just said it was "a key for use with the next alg"... Can it be a hmac key?

Author: Improved wording. Yes, hmac key.

3. Pass in the following parameters to HPKE Seal API
    1. Public key of recipient for “pKR”
    2. Empty string for “info”

>     3. CBOR-encoded Recipient_structure for “aad”

Reviewer: CDE ?

    4. CEK for next cose layer for “pt”
4.  The following are returned from the HPKE Seal API
    1. The “enc” is placed in the "ek" header of the COSE_recipient
    2. The “ct” is placed in the “ciphertext” field of the COSE_recipient

The decoding and decryption of a COSE_recipient is as follows:

1. Prepare a Recipient_structure
2. Pass in the following parameters to HPKE Open API
    1. The "ek" header  for “enc”
    2. Secret key for recipient for “sKR”
    3. Empty string for “info”
    4. CBOR-encoded Recipient_structure for “aad”
    5. The cipher text from the COSE_recipient as “ct”
3. What is returned from HPKE Open API is the CEK for the next COSE layer

> It is not necessary to fill in recipeint_aad as HPKE itself covers the attacks that recipient_aad (and COSE_KDF_Context (and xxxx reference)) are used to mitigate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is not necessary to fill in recipient_aad as HPKE itself covers the attacks that recipient_aad (and COSE_KDF_Context (and xxxx reference)) are used to mitigate.
```

COSE-HPKE use cases may use it for any purpose they wish, but it should generally be for small identifiers, context or secrets, not to protect bulk external data.

> Bulk external data should be protected at layer 0 with external_aad.

Reviewer: This and the previous sentence are great.

multiple parties at the expense of a single additional encryption operation.
As stated above, the specification uses a CEK to encrypt the content at layer 0.

#### Recipient Encryption

This describes the Recipient_structure.
It serves instead of COSE_KDF_Context for COSE-HPKE recipients (and possibly other COSE algorithms defined outside this document).
It MUST be used for COSE-HPKE recipients as it provides the protection for recipient protected headers.
It is patterned after the Enc_structure in {{RFC9052}}, but is specifically for a COSE_recipient, never a COSE_Encrypt.
The COSE_KDF_Context MUST NOT be used in COSE-HPKE.

~~~
Recipient_structure = [ 

>     context: “Recipient”,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    context: "Recipient",
```

    next_layer_alg: int/tstr,
    recipient_protected_header: empty_or_serialize_map,
    recipient_aad: bstr
]
~~~

- "next_layer_alg" is the algorithm ID of the COSE layer for which the COSE_recipient is encrypting a key.
It is the algorithm that the key MUST be used with.

> This MUST match the alg parameter in the next lower COSE layer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This value MUST match the alg parameter in the next lower COSE layer.
```

(This serves the same purpose as the alg ID in the COSE_KDF_Context.

> It also mitigates attacks where a man-in-the-middle changes the following layer algorithm from an AEAD algorithm to one that is not foiling the protection of the following layer headers).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It also mitigates attacks where a person-in-the-middle changes the following layer algorithm from an AEAD algorithm to one that is not foiling the protection of the following layer headers).
```

> - "recipient_protected_header" This is the protected headers from the COSE_recipient CBOR-encoded deterministically with Core Deterministic Encoding Requirements specified in Section 4.2.1 of RFC 8949 {{STD94}}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- "recipient_protected_header" contains the protected headers from the COSE_recipient CBOR-encoded deterministically with the "Core Deterministic Encoding Requirements", specified in Section 4.2.1 of RFC 8949 {{STD94}}.
```

> - "recipient_aad" This is any additional context that the application wishes to protect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- "recipient_aad" contains any additional context the application wishes to protect.
```

If none, it is a zero-length string.
This is distinct from the external_aad for the whole COSE encrypt.
It is per-recipient.
Since it is not a header, it may be secret data that is not transmitted.
It provides a means to convey many of the fields in COSE_KDF_Context.

#### COSE-HPKE Recipient Construction

This is the procedure for creating a COSE_recipient for COSE-HPKE.

> When a COSE_recipeint is constructed for a COSE-HPKE recipient, this is given as the “aad” parameter to the HPKE Seal() API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a COSE_recipeint is constructed for a COSE-HPKE recipient, this is given as the "aad" parameter to the HPKE Seal() API.
```
